MCFZ Business Rules
[For Internal Use Only]
Prepared By: [Mohammad Fahad]
Date: [22/04/2026]
Version: [1.4]
Company Rules
A company legal status can only be either a Limited Liability Company (L.L.C) or Branch.
Company names must comply with the most up-to-date MCFZ company name rules
A company can be formed with a multi-year license
For multi-year licenses, discounts are applied to the package price
The legal age for managers and directors is 18 years. 
A company (either LLC or Branch) can only have 1 manager.
A company (either LLC or Branch) must have at least 1 UBO.
An LLC company must have a minimum of 1 Director and can have a maximum of 99 Directors.         
A limited company must have a minimum of 1 Legal Representative and can a have a maximum of 99 Legal Representatives.
A Branch cannot have any shareholders or directors.
A Branch can have a Legal Representative for the Manager.
Re-domiciling is not allowed
Startup Package Rules
A maximum of 99 shareholders can be added (Corporate or Individual)
A dummy lease is provided for opening a bank account
Business One Package Rules
A maximum of 99 shareholders can be added (Corporate or Individual)
A lease (flexi-desk) is provided
Enterprise Package Rules
A maximum of 99 shareholders can be added (Corporate or Individual)
A lease (flexi-desk) is provided, however, if the client is leasing a premises within Masdar City, then the lease fee within this package can be refunded to the client
Innovation Package Rules
A maximum of 99 shareholders can be added (Corporate or Individual)
All shareholders must be female for women entrepreneurship
A lease (flexi-desk) is provided
Only eligible business activities can be executed with this package
Emirati Package Rules
A maximum of 99 individual shareholders can be added
All shareholders must be Emirati Nationals
All other types of company stakeholders can be of any nationality
Freelancer License
Shareholder Rules
The minimum age requirement to become an individual shareholder is 18 years.
Shareholders can be either an Individual or Entity / Company.
A company can only have a maximum of 99 shareholders.
The number of shares and share capital must be in whole numbers.
The share capital is not paid up for Masdar City companies.
The minimum share capital for a shareholder must be AED 50,000 (Fifty Thousand United Arab Emirate Dirhams).
The minimum value per share must be AED 1,000 (One Thousand United Arab Emirate Dirhams)
Additional shareholders can be added to each business packages for a fee of AED 1,000 per additional shareholder up to a maximum of 99 shareholders.
Manager Rules
The company manager does not need to have previously entered the UAE.
A manager requires an attested degree, however if they are also a shareholder, then they do not need an attested degree 
Business Activity Rules
Additional activities can be added to each business packages for a fee of AED 1,500 per additional activity.
If any chosen activities require third-party approval, this approval can be obtained following the license issuance (except for activities that require pre-approval from Department of Health - DOH). 
If an activity requires pre-approval from the Food Control Authority (FCA), then the client must provide an undertaking letter.
For any application that requires assistance with third parties' approval, PRO service fees will be applicable, as determined by the Client Servicing Department.
UBO Rules
Only shareholders with a share capital equal to or above 25% can be a UBO
Individual shareholders and entity shareholders can be a UBO
Document Validation Rules
Entity documents provided must either be extracted from the register or notarised.
Board resolutions must be notarised and attested.
Entity documents provided with a non-shareholder’s signature must be accompanied by the Power of Attorney (POA). If a POA is unavailable, then the signed document must be attested.
Channel Partners
Channel Partner Commission is applied to the Package price (after multi-year license discount) and additional Visa Allocation price