Masdar City Free Zone
Company Name Reservation Rules and Guidelines
Company Name Rules
A company name at Masdar City Free Zone must abide by the following rules / guidelines:
Company names must not contain offensive language; words that are indecent, sexual, racist, religious or attacking someone personally.
God’s / Allah’s names or any references to religion or religious organisations.
Names of political organisations or other words that indicate political affiliation.
A shareholder’s surname and first name is allowed to be used
Abbreviations are allowed but the client must provide clarification on the meaning before it can be approved.
Geographical countries, districts, emirates or provinces are not allowed
Geographical continents and regions are allowed. (MENA, Asia, Middle East, Africa, etc)
The name must not contain the names of business districts or UAE airport codes, i.e. DXB, AUH.
Words that are the same as a government project or popular local or international brands, i.e. Apple, Toyota, KFC, etc.
Names cannot contain specific words such as Assurance, Bank, Banking, Financial, Government, Insurance, Royal, Trust, etc.
Names cannot contain punctuation marks and symbols
Name cannot contain the “&” sign, only the word ‘And’ can be used.
The company name cannot begin with the words International, Middle East— in any language. However, Names can begin with Global 
The name must not contradict the company’s business activities. 
The name must not be reserved if it is protected/has copyright against it.
The name must not contain UAE, Emirates, City names, Districts, or UAE Airports Codes
The names must not be like government organization names or contain their abbreviations.
The name would not be granted if it is like DED/Local active companies that perform similar activities
The Operating Name must not contradict the company name and must comply with all the above rules.
Branch`s name must be the same as the parent company unless it contains restricted words 
Other Rules
Company’s names can be directly or phonetically translated from English to Arabic
NOC/Commercial License Copy/Share Certificate/Valid Franchise Agreement…etc. is to be provided if the proposed name is protected or locally registered.